DAY2 RUNNING NOTES:
------------------


requirement: we need create a file and give only read access permission.
file name : DevOps.txt and we should add string 
here we are usig local provider
create a folder on desktop name it terraform and iside it create folder local. open this folder from vscode --> open a folder
create a file main.tf. we can give any name but extension should be .tf. in this main.tf we write code. copy the terraform block from local provider official documentation.
we are using local provider and this local provider has only two resources 1.local_file 2.local_sensitive_file. we are using local provider to understand terraform workflow.
we give required providers as local in terraform block
give provider as "local"
resource "local_file" "main"
  filename=DevOps.txt
if we didn't give file name it shows error because in official documentation of local provider it is mensioned as file name is mandatory and content is optional.
all attributes like content, file permissions, are present in official documentation.
after writing the script we need to initialise ----> terraform init
by doing this all the information will be downloaded.
if we go to our local folder .terraform directory is created and in this directory provider are info is downloaded.
after initialization we need to check sysntax---> terraform validate ---> success
terrafrom plan -----> it shows what type of resources will be created. and some information about the resource to be created.
terraform apply-------> the resources written in main.tf file will be created. and statefile is created and information is stored in the statefile.
it ask for confirmation. 
information about the infra created is stored in state file.
if we again use terraform apply it shows no changes 
if we change the content in file to "devops with java and python" it shows that content in main.tf and statefile is different. we if apply again it is not necessary to re-initialise again, it is better to 
check the terraform validate.
when we do terraform plan it shows this is force replacement.
we can check the data in statefile content:
if we create another resource block with same alias name the resource will not be created. if alias name is same atleast resource type should be different.
if add extra content to exixting resource like adding file content then the first resource is destroyed and again two resources are created.
if two resources are created then the terraform state file has two resource sections.
if we are not maintaining the state file when we apply for second time it will recreate agian. if statefile is present it will not be recreated.
terraform destroy is used to destroy the resources.
it will ask first to destroy.
if we loss the main terraform file we have terraform backupfile(same).


we can create ec2 instances by using the terraform. we go with default vpc.
create a seperate folder aws_ec2.
open a terminal in this location.
open the same folder from vscode.
create a new file main.tf where we write terrafrom code.
provider is aws here.
google aws provider in terraform. copy the provider information and paste in terraform file.
inside provider define region "ap-sount-1".
search inside official terraform documentation aws_instance. in arguement section mandatory parameters and optional parameters are present. 
while creating an instance there is no mandatory fields(mentioned in document). default vpc default values are assigned.
write resorce in terraform script "aws_instance" and its name "main"
in general we give ami id. for ami id go to aws----> ec2----->amicatalog copy the ami id give in the terraform script ami = "ami-00ce22601d4c605f"
we shold not do hard coding like this  we are doing this for learning purpose.
instance_type = "t2.medium"
refer the document reference arguiment to know the parameters to be passed.
availability_zone = "ap-south-1a"
key must be already created in mumbai region. or we should write seperate resource block.
we can generate a key later also so leave it.
tags = {
  name = "web-server"
  env = "production"
save the file and do terraform init
terraform validate
terraform plan. the details of resource to be created will be shown but instace id shows known after apply.
terraform apply.
go to aws and chek the ec2 created.
if change the name of the instance name to main1 the main ec2 instance is deleted and again new instance is created with main1 name. this is called "force update"
if we want to change the tag from web-server to web-server1 the instance will not be destroyed. this is called "inplace update". when we do terraform apply it gives a message 
terraform will perform the following actions ------- plan  0 to add 1 to change 0 to destroy.
once ec2 is created we cannot change the ami-id
if you want to create a new server create another resource block. 







in windows if we go to a filel and ---> right click---> open in terminal then terminal will open in same location.
check terraform version : terraform --version





DAY3 RUNNING NOTES:
-------------------

in this class provider block and meta arguements are discussed

destroy the ec2 instance we created ---> terraform destroy --auto-approve
check in the gui in the region we created the resource.
aws configure list-----> gives the configuration details.
we can define access key and secret key in porvider block.
create an IAM user----> username user1
privide user access to aws management console---> custome password-----> disable to reset new password---> create user
login this user from another browser give a user ID or alias name for login ( can we paste the url )
username: user1
password: mypassword
he is unable to list anything.
he don't have any permission related to acces key. access denied to iam List access key.
go to that user ----> add permissions----> attach policies directly-----> serach in permission policies admin----> selcect adminstrator access---> add permission
go to security credentials tab and refresh---> now create access key is enabled ---> create access key----> select command line interface---> next---> give name as test-key--->create access key
now copy the access key and secret key of user1
we can place these access key and secret key in terraform script.
if we do aws configure list


